so we're gonna talk a little bit about
Dharma and Dharma is the Sun script word
which means duty so just to tell you
guys to track back a little bit when I
was 21 I was kind of failing out of
college and ended up spending some time
at an ashram in India and an ashram is
kind of like a monastery it's a place
where people go and do like yoga and
meditation and it's kind of where monks
live and where they kind of do their
thing and it was a really transformative
experience for me and I realized that a
lot of the values and ways that we look
at life which are based on Western
philosophy leave something to be desired
and I'll explain a little bit about what
I'm talking about
so in psychiatry we tend to try to move
people away from suffering so if there's
someone who's depressed or has anxiety
as a psychiatrist it's my job to make
them undepressed and not feel anxiety in
the West we have this general idea which
makes perfect sense that what you want
to do if you're in a bad spot that you
should move out of the bad spot and move
into a good spot right like we make
people better and we want to move away
from suffering and move towards pleasure
and move away from pain in the East they
say something a little bit different so
Buddha Buddha said that all human beings
are entitled to two things the first is
suffering in the second is death and
that's all you're entitled to which is
kind of like a grandma outlook but it
turns out to be true and what would have
found is that it's not enough to just
run away from suffering and not actually
a lot of times is you try to run away
from suffering you actually create more
suffering for yourself and if we think a
little bit about gaming how many of you
guys would say that by running away from
your suffering through gaming you're
actually creating more suffering for
yourselves right like everyone agrees
with that like it's common sense but
it's crazy to actually think about that
the way that you cope with a problem
actually makes the problem worse but
it's absolutely true of most gamers so
how do we get around that what we do is
we go back to Buddha right because he's
a smart guy
he knows
the he's talking about right like
he's what though so what he says is that
the way to live life is actually not to
avoid suffering but to live your Dharma
which means to live your duty or your
responsibility and what would the
discovered which is which actually is
kind of common sense once we kind of
talk about it is that if you are living
in service to your duty if you're trying
to do something for a higher cause or
you're if you're living up to your
responsibilities that there's an immense
amount of strength and tolerance that
you'll get access to if you think about
parents so like most parents can
sacrifice immense amounts of you know
personal comfort or satisfaction for the
sake of their children and they do it in
a heartbeat
like if a parent could trade their life
to save their child from cancer they do
it in a heartbeat interestingly enough
gamers are very good at actually
sacrificing for other people and if you
think about it where does that strength
come from where is it that how is it
that you can sacrifice so much for the
sake of someone else and when you
sacrifice oh you're the one that suffers
right I mean that's how it works that's
what sacrifice means is that you give
something else you give up something and
you're the one who's worse off and so
what this all comes back to is Dharma if
you as a gamer can figure out what your
Dharma is if you can be sort of rooted
in your Dharma and grounded in it if you
can say that this is my duty this is my
responsibility in life this is who I
commit myself to be you'll be amazed at
how much strength you get out of that
you'll be amazed at how much you can
withstand and how much how much of an
energy reserve you'll have to move
forward in the way that you want to and
when I work with my patients I actually
don't try to help them I don't try to
alleviate their suffering all right
sometimes I'll start out that way but
over time what I find is the best
treatment for depression is to actually
have people living in accordance with
their duty and that sort of taps into
this weird like higher power
which like I don't quite understand but
sometimes human beings when they serve a
cause that's greater than themselves
they're
able to accomplish things that are
superhuman and if you look at history
you'll see this all of the people who
have accomplished really amazing things
like you look at people like Mahatma
Gandhi you look at people like MLK on
the other end of the spectrum you even
look at people like Adolf Hitler why was
Hitler able to change Europe so much and
turn Germany which had been a
after World War 1 into this ultimate
powerhouse that threatened an entire
continent it's because he was living in
service to this greater idea and when
you tap into that as a gamer if you can
figure out what that is for yourself
you'll have an immense amount of energy
so how do you find your Dharma how do
you actually do that how do you tap into
that this actually kind of goes back to
what I was talking about earlier I mean
you have to reflect you really have to
externalize it and I'd say that stick
with the same exercise I told you about
earlier which is write something on a
piece of paper so put down on a piece of
paper what are your actual
responsibilities what are what is your
duty as a human being on this earth what
is your actual Duty like what is the
meaning of your existence here and a lot
of you guys may say like when you
actually sit down and try to put it down
on a piece of paper it's gonna be hard
because what is your duty I mean what
the are you doing like what's the
meaning of your life you sit there and
you play video games all day like what
is their meaning in that and that's
exactly the problem right
because you guys don't have meaning in
your life and so you have to figure out
what your meaning is in the second you
figure out what your meaning is you're
going to start to get more motivation
you're gonna start to get that fuel
you'll start to get energy and then
you'll be able to overcome that video
game addiction you'll be able to
overcome your game gaming and get some
control in your life yeah
so there are a couple of ways the first
is so like I said you can sit down with
a piece of paper and I'd start by
actually writing down on that piece of
paper what is your duty who are you
responsible to as a human being whose
life depends on you doing something and
you may find that actually there's no
one in your life that depends on you
that's actually the case for most young
people so then what I'd say is take one
step forward and ask yourself actually
don't ask yourself well let me just so
the way the other way you find meaning
is by actually engaging in experience so
sitting at home you're not going to
actually learn what your
responsibilities are because you
actually don't have responsibilities so
what I encourage you to do is just get
some experience human beings are
designed to crave and want experiences
and we learn a lot through experience so
I'd say get out of the house and just do
something it doesn't matter what it is
just go somewhere and do something
volunteer or find a job or to go to an
art museum it doesn't matter what you do
go somewhere but in the back of your
mind whenever you do that thing go for a
hike go meet friends for drinks it
doesn't matter what you do in the back
of your mind have this thought and look
at this room like let's say you're
sitting at a table and you're you're
meeting people for drinks you know just
like pause and look at the people that
you're with and ask yourself do I have a
duty here do I have a responsibility and
you may find yes and you may find no and
when you go for a hike do the same thing
and ask yourself like what am I doing
here like is there is there any kind of
duty or responsibility that arises here
what is it that I want to do what is it
that I need to do what is it that I was
put on this earth to do and the more
places you go and you may say and this
is where gamers are gonna be like well I
mean how the am I gonna know what
I'm supposed to do if I go for a hike
how is there any duty or responsibility
there and you're right and that's a
rational explanation
that's an analytical answer to your
question you know sure there's no duty
that you're going to find by going for a
hike but the
with gamers is that you the only thing
that you use to learn is your analytical
mind and there are parts of yourself in
parts of your mind and parts of your
brain that are more intuitive that are
more emotional and you have to give them
space for them to actually have thoughts
that come up and so it's bizarre but
like why do people go for retreats out
in the wilderness like people go for
retreats out in the wilderness right
like it happens all the time like how
the does that help how do you like
trees and leaves and streams help you
get perspective in life honestly I have
no idea how that works but the
truth is it does work that's how people
find meaning in life is they go and they
like sit under a tree for a while and
they like breathe fresh air and they
hike for a while and their muscles are
sore and they go to sleep at night and
they wake up in the morning and somehow
they've found meaning I have no
idea how it works but I do know that it
does work so I think what you've got to
do is get your ass off of the chair and
go do something it doesn't matter what
it is and in the back of your mind try
to ask yourself like what am I supposed
to do what's my responsibility here do I
have any responsibility and the more
that you create space away from your
analytical mind which comes up with
logical answers with your limited set of
data which you guys get from playing
video games which is like all the data
that you all have and so you come up
with these logical conclusions but those
logical conclusions while they may sound
like they make sense don't actually
improve your life in any way so you've
got to get your ass out of the chair and
go do something else and you will be
amazed at what your brain is capable of
when you give it a diversity of
experience your brain is gonna take in
that fresh air and it's gonna listen to
the stream and it's gonna look at the
piece of art and it's going to listen to
the music and and listen to your friends
and somehow something is gonna happen in
your unconscious mind and you're gonna
come out the other end the sausage is
gonna be made and you're gonna have
meaning and it's just I know how the
works but that's how it works